README.md, before:

# OCL2PSQL

The Object Constraint Language (OCL) is a textual, declarative language typically used as part of the UML standard for specifying constraints and queries on models.

OCL2PSQL implements a novel mapping
from OCL to pure SQL that deals with
(possibly nested) iterator expressions,
without resorting to imperative features of SQL.

OCL2PSQL generates SQL queries that can be efficiently
executed on mid- and large-size SQL databases.

## Introduction

This web service is intended for readers of our manuscripts:

* Mapping OCL into SQL: Challenges and Opportunities Ahead
* OCL2PSQL: An OCL-to-SQL Code-Generator for Model-Driven Engineering

Please, be aware that OCL2PSQL is an on-going research project.
In particular, OCL2PSQL does **NOT** cover yet the full OCL language. 

This table represents a detailed overview of supported Object Constraint Language (OCL) operators in our implementation `OCL2PSQL`. It consists of several categories, in which contains 2 columns: the operator (on the left) and the syntax example (on the right).

##### Class operations
|||
|--------------------------|---|
|`allInstances`  |  *class*.`allInstances()` |
|`attributes`  |  *var*.`att` |
|`association ends`  |  *var*.`assoc` |

##### Constants operations
|||
|--------------------------|---|
|`Boolean Literal`  |  `{TRUE, FALSE}`|
|`Integer Literal`  |  `{..., -2, 1, 0, 1, 2, ...}`|
|`String Literal`  |  `'string'`|

##### Boolean operations
|||
|--------------------------|---|
|`not`  |  `NOT` *bool-expr* |
|`and`, `or`| *bool-expr* `logic-operator` *bool-expr'*|
| =, <>, >, <, &#8805;, &#8804;  |  *bool-expr* `compare-operator` *bool-expr'*|

##### Iterative operations
|||
|--------------------------|---|
|`collect`  |  *source-expr* -> `collect`(*var* &#124; *body-expr*) |
|`forAll`  |  *source-expr* -> `forAll`(*var* &#124; *bool-expr*) |
|`exists`  |  *source-expr* -> `exists`(*var* &#124; *bool-expr*) |
|`select`  |  *source-expr* -> `select`(*var* &#124; *bool-expr*) |
|`reject`  |  *source-expr* -> `reject`(*var* &#124; *bool-expr*) |
|`size`  |  *source-expr* -> `size()`|
|`isEmpty`  |  *source-expr* -> `isEmpty()`|
|`notEmpty`  |  *source-expr* -> `notEmpty()`|
|`isUnique`  |  *source-expr* -> `isUnique()`|
|`flatten`[<sup>1</sup>]  |  *source-expr* -> `flatten()`|

###### [<sup>1</sup>] For the time being, this can operate *ONLY* after the `collect` operation
[<sup>1</sup>]:#-For

# Quick Guideline

Interested readers can clone our project (and related submodules) using these commands:
```
git clone https://github.com/ocl-vgu/OCL2PSQL.git
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

An easy way to use `OCL2PSQL` library is 

```java
OCL2PSQL_2 ocl2psql = new OCL2PSQL_2();
String filePath = "/absolute/path/of/contextual/data/model";
ocl2psql.setDataModelFromFile(filePath);
ocl2psql.setDescriptionMode(true);

String oclExpression = "Car.allInstances()->collect(c.owners->isUnique())";
String finalStatement = ocl2psql.mapToString(oclExpression);
```
###### The contextual data model definition can be found in the manuscripts above.
###### Description mode add OCL sub-expressions as comments to generated SQL statements, it is false by default.

We provide one sample scenario where the *contextual model* of the OCL expressions can be translated by the model `CarOwnership` [(See here)](http://researcher-paper.ap-southeast-1.elasticbeanstalk.com/model.html) and the generated SQL expressions are *solely* intended for the database schema CarDB [(See here)](http://researcher-paper.ap-southeast-1.elasticbeanstalk.com/schema.html). Also, the generated database schema can also be generated using [dm2schema](https://github.com/ocl-vgu/dm2schema).

Commit message:

Config submodules for future implementation

README.md, after:

# OCL2PSQL

The Object Constraint Language (OCL) is a textual, declarative language typically used as part of the UML standard for specifying constraints and queries on models.

OCL2PSQL implements a novel mapping
from OCL to pure SQL that deals with
(possibly nested) iterator expressions,
without resorting to imperative features of SQL.

OCL2PSQL generates SQL queries that can be efficiently
executed on mid- and large-size SQL databases.

## Introduction

This web service is intended for readers of our manuscripts:

* Mapping OCL into SQL: Challenges and Opportunities Ahead
* OCL2PSQL: An OCL-to-SQL Code-Generator for Model-Driven Engineering

Please, be aware that OCL2PSQL is an on-going research project.
In particular, OCL2PSQL does **NOT** cover yet the full OCL language. 

This table represents a detailed overview of supported Object Constraint Language (OCL) operators in our implementation `OCL2PSQL`. It consists of several categories, in which contains 2 columns: the operator (on the left) and the syntax example (on the right).

##### Class operations
|||
|--------------------------|---|
|`allInstances`  |  *class*.`allInstances()` |
|`attributes`  |  *var*.`att` |
|`association ends`  |  *var*.`assoc` |

##### Constants operations
|||
|--------------------------|---|
|`Boolean Literal`  |  `{TRUE, FALSE}`|
|`Integer Literal`  |  `{..., -2, 1, 0, 1, 2, ...}`|
|`String Literal`  |  `'string'`|

##### Boolean operations
|||
|--------------------------|---|
|`not`  |  `NOT` *bool-expr* |
|`and`, `or`| *bool-expr* `logic-operator` *bool-expr'*|
| =, <>, >, <, &#8805;, &#8804;  |  *bool-expr* `compare-operator` *bool-expr'*|

##### Iterative operations
|||
|--------------------------|---|
|`collect`  |  *source-expr* -> `collect`(*var* &#124; *body-expr*) |
|`forAll`  |  *source-expr* -> `forAll`(*var* &#124; *bool-expr*) |
|`exists`  |  *source-expr* -> `exists`(*var* &#124; *bool-expr*) |
|`select`  |  *source-expr* -> `select`(*var* &#124; *bool-expr*) |
|`reject`  |  *source-expr* -> `reject`(*var* &#124; *bool-expr*) |
|`size`  |  *source-expr* -> `size()`|
|`isEmpty`  |  *source-expr* -> `isEmpty()`|
|`notEmpty`  |  *source-expr* -> `notEmpty()`|
|`isUnique`  |  *source-expr* -> `isUnique()`|
|`flatten`[<sup>1</sup>]  |  *source-expr* -> `flatten()`|

###### [<sup>1</sup>] For the time being, this can operate *ONLY* after the `collect` operation
[<sup>1</sup>]:#-For

# Quick Guideline

Interested readers can clone our project (and related submodules) using these commands:
```
git clone https://github.com/ocl-vgu/OCL2PSQL.git
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
Then, please add the related submodules
```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
And check out the corresponding branch OCL2PSQL-v2 for this project, for example:
```
cd jocl
git checkout OCL2PSQL-v2
cd ..\dm2schema
git checkout OCL2PSQL-v2
```

An easy way to use `OCL2PSQL` library is 

```java
OCL2PSQL_2 ocl2psql = new OCL2PSQL_2();
String filePath = "/absolute/path/of/contextual/data/model";
ocl2psql.setDataModelFromFile(filePath);
ocl2psql.setDescriptionMode(true);

String oclExpression = "Car.allInstances()->collect(c.owners->isUnique())";
String finalStatement = ocl2psql.mapToString(oclExpression);
```
###### The contextual data model definition can be found in the manuscripts above.
###### Description mode add OCL sub-expressions as comments to generated SQL statements, it is false by default.

We provide one sample scenario where the *contextual model* of the OCL expressions can be translated by the model `CarOwnership` [(See here)](http://researcher-paper.ap-southeast-1.elasticbeanstalk.com/model.html) and the generated SQL expressions are *solely* intended for the database schema CarDB [(See here)](http://researcher-paper.ap-southeast-1.elasticbeanstalk.com/schema.html). Also, the generated database schema can also be generated using [dm2schema](https://github.com/ocl-vgu/dm2schema).
